doc/administration/server_hooks.md, before:

---
stage: Systems
group: Gitaly
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Git server hooks **(FREE SELF)**

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/196051) in GitLab 12.8 replacing Custom Hooks.
> - [Renamed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/372991) from server hooks to Git server hooks in GitLab 15.6.

Git server hooks (not to be confused with [system hooks](system_hooks.md) or [file hooks](file_hooks.md)) run custom logic
on the GitLab server. You can use them to run Git-related tasks such as:

- Enforcing specific commit policies.
- Performing tasks based on the state of the repository.

Git server hooks use `pre-receive`, `post-receive`, and `update`
[Git server-side hooks](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Customizing-Git-Git-Hooks#_server_side_hooks).

GitLab administrators configure server hooks through the Gitaly CLI, which connects to the Gitaly gRPC API.
If you don't have access to the Gitaly CLI, alternatives to server hooks include:

- [Webhooks](../user/project/integrations/webhooks.md).
- [GitLab CI/CD](../ci/index.md).
- [Push rules](../user/project/repository/push_rules.md), for a user-configurable Git hook interface.

[Geo](geo/index.md) doesn't replicate server hooks to secondary nodes.

## Set server hooks for a repository

::Tabs

:::TabTitle GitLab 15.11 and later

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitaly/-/issues/4629) in GitLab 15.11, `hooks set` command replaces direct file system access. Existing Git hooks don't need migrating for the `hooks set` command.

Prerequisites:

- The [storage name](gitaly/configure_gitaly.md#gitlab-requires-a-default-repository-storage), path to the Gitaly configuration file
  (default is `/var/opt/gitlab/gitaly/config.toml` on Linux package instances), and the
  [repository relative path](repository_storage_paths.md#from-project-name-to-hashed-path) for the repository.

To set server hooks for a repository:

1. Create tarball containing custom hooks:
   1. Write the code to make the server hook function as expected. Git server hooks can be in any programming language.
      Ensure the [shebang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)) at the top reflects the language type. For
      example, if the script is in Ruby the shebang is probably `#!/usr/bin/env ruby`.

      - To create a single server hook, create a file with a name that matches the hook type. For example, for a
        `pre-receive` server hook, the file name should be `pre-receive` with no extension.
      - To create many server hooks, create a directory for the hooks that matches the hook type. For example, for a
        `pre-receive` server hook, the directory name should be `pre-receive.d`. Put the files for the hook in that
        directory.

   1. Ensure the server hook files are executable and do not match the backup file pattern (`*~`). The server hooks be
      in a `custom_hooks` directory that is at the root of the tarball.
   1. Create the custom hooks archive with the tar command. For example, `tar -cf custom_hooks.tar custom_hooks`.
1. Run the `hooks set` subcommand with required options to set the Git hooks for the repository. For example,
   `cat hooks.tar | gitaly hooks set --storage <storage> --repository <relative path> --config <config path>`.

   - A path to a valid Gitaly configuration for the node is required to connect to the node and provided to the `--config` flag.
   - Custom hooks tarball must be passed via `stdin`. For example, `cat hooks.tar | gitaly hooks set --storage <storage> --repository <relative path> --config <config path>`.
1. If you are using Gitaly Cluster, you must run `hooks set` subcommand on all Gitaly nodes. For more information, see
   [Server hooks on a Gitaly Cluster](#server-hooks-on-a-gitaly-cluster).

If you implemented the server hook code correctly, it should execute when the Git hook is next triggered.

:::TabTitle GitLab 15.10 and earlier

To create server hooks for a repository:

1. On the left sidebar, at the bottom, select **Admin Area**.
1. Go to **Overview > Projects** and select the project you want to add a server hook to.
1. On the page that appears, locate the value of **Relative path**. This path is where server
   hooks must be located.
   - If you are using [hashed storage](repository_storage_paths.md#hashed-storage), see
     [Translate hashed storage paths](repository_storage_paths.md#translate-hashed-storage-paths) for information on
     interpreting the relative path.
   - If you are not using [hashed storage](repository_storage_paths.md#hashed-storage):
     - For Linux package installations, the path is usually `/var/opt/gitlab/git-data/repositories/<group>/<project>.git`.
     - For self-compiled installations, the path is usually `/home/git/repositories/<group>/<project>.git`.
1. On the file system, create a new directory in the correct location called `custom_hooks`.
1. In the new `custom_hooks` directory:
   - To create a single server hook, create a file with a name that matches the hook type. For example, for a
     `pre-receive` server hook, the file name should be `pre-receive` with no extension.
   - To create many server hooks, create a directory for the hooks that matches the hook type. For example, for a
     `pre-receive` server hook, the directory name should be `pre-receive.d`. Put the files for the hook in that directory.
1. **Make the server hook files executable** and ensure that they are owned by the Git user.
1. Write the code to make the server hook function as expected. Git server hooks can be in any programming language. Ensure
   the [shebang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)) at the top reflects the language type. For
   example, if the script is in Ruby the shebang is probably `#!/usr/bin/env ruby`.
1. Ensure the hook file does not match the backup file
   pattern (`*~`).
1. If you are using Gitaly Cluster, you must repeat this process on all Gitaly nodes. For more information, see
   [Server hooks on a Gitaly Cluster](#server-hooks-on-a-gitaly-cluster).

If the server hook code is properly implemented, it should execute when the Git hook is next triggered.

::EndTabs

### Server hooks on a Gitaly Cluster

If you use [Gitaly Cluster](gitaly/index.md), an individual repository may be replicated to multiple Gitaly storages in Praefect.
Consequentially, the hook scripts must be copied to every Gitaly node that has a replica of the repository.
To accomplish this, follow the same steps for setting custom repository hooks for the applicable version and repeat for each storage.

The location to copy the scripts to depends on where repositories are stored:

- In GitLab 15.2 and earlier, Gitaly Cluster uses the [hashed storage path](repository_storage_paths.md#hashed-storage)
  reported by the GitLab application.
- In GitLab 15.3 and later, new repositories are created using
  [Praefect-generated replica paths](gitaly/index.md#praefect-generated-replica-paths-gitlab-150-and-later),
  which are not the hashed storage path. The replica path can be identified by
  [querying the Praefect repository metadata](../administration/gitaly/troubleshooting.md#view-repository-metadata)
  using `-relative-path` to specify the expected GitLab hashed storage path.

## Create global server hooks for all repositories

To create a Git hook that applies to all repositories, set a global server hook. Global server hooks also apply to:

- [Project and group wiki](../user/project/wiki/index.md) repositories. Their storage directory names are in the format
  `<id>.wiki.git`.
- [Design management](../user/project/issues/design_management.md) repositories under a project. Their storage directory
  names are in the format `<id>.design.git`.

### Choose a server hook directory

Before creating a global server hook, you must choose a directory for it.

For Linux package installations, the directory is set in `gitlab.rb` under `gitaly['configuration'][:hooks][:custom_hooks_dir]`. You can either:

- Use the default suggestion of the `/var/opt/gitlab/gitaly/custom_hooks` directory by uncommenting it.
- Add your own setting.

For self-compiled installations:

- The directory is set in a configuration file. The location of the configuration file depends on the GitLab version:
  - For GitLab 13.1 and later, the directory is set in `gitaly/config.toml` under the `[hooks]` section. However,
    GitLab honors the `custom_hooks_dir` value in `gitlab-shell/config.yml` if the value in `gitaly/config.toml` is blank
    or non-existent.
  - For GitLab 13.0 and earlier, the directory set in `gitlab-shell/config.yml`.
- The default directory is `/home/git/gitlab-shell/hooks`.

### Create the global server hook

To create a global server hook for all repositories:

1. On the GitLab server, go to the configured global server hook directory.
1. In the configured global server hook directory, create a directory for the hooks that matches the hook type. For example, for a `pre-receive` server hook, the directory name should be `pre-receive.d`.
1. Inside this new directory, add your server hooks. Git server hooks can be in any programming language. Ensure the
   [shebang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)) at the top reflects the language type. For example, if the
   script is in Ruby the shebang is probably `#!/usr/bin/env ruby`.
1. Make the hook file executable, ensure that it's owned by the Git user, and ensure it does not match the backup file
   pattern (`*~`).

If the server hook code is properly implemented, it should execute when the Git hook is next triggered. Hooks are executed in alphabetical order by file name in the hook type
subdirectories.

## Remove server hooks for a repository

::Tabs

:::TabTitle GitLab 15.11 and later

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitaly/-/issues/4629) in GitLab 15.11, `hooks set` command replaces direct file system access.

Prerequisites:

- The [storage name and relative path](repository_storage_paths.md#from-project-name-to-hashed-path) for the repository.

To remove server hooks, pass an empty tarball to `hook set` to indicate that the repository should contain no hooks. For example:

```shell
cat empty_hooks.tar | gitaly hooks set --storage <storage> --repository <relative path> --config <config path>`.
```

:::TabTitle GitLab 15.10 and earlier

To remove server hooks:

1. Go to the location of the repository on disk.
1. Delete the server hooks in the `custom_hooks` directory.

::EndTabs

## Chained server hooks

GitLab can execute server hooks in a chain. GitLab searches for and executes server hooks in the following order:

- Built-in GitLab server hooks. These server hooks are not customizable by users.
- `<project>.git/custom_hooks/<hook_name>`: Per-project hooks. This location is kept for backwards compatibility.
- `<project>.git/custom_hooks/<hook_name>.d/*`: Location for per-project hooks.
- `<custom_hooks_dir>/<hook_name>.d/*`: Location for all executable global hook files except editor backup files.

Within a server hooks directory, hooks:

- Are executed in alphabetical order.
- Stop executing when a hook exits with a non-zero value.

## Environment variables available to server hooks

You can pass any environment variable to server hooks, but you should only rely on supported environment variables.

The following GitLab environment variables are supported for all server hooks:

| Environment variable | Description                                                                                                                                                |
|:---------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `GL_ID`              | GitLab identifier of user or SSH key that initiated the push. For example, `user-2234` or `key-4`.                                                         |
| `GL_PROJECT_PATH`    | (GitLab 13.2 and later) GitLab project path.                                                                                                               |
| `GL_PROTOCOL`        | (GitLab 13.2 and later) Protocol used for this change. One of: `http` (Git `push` using HTTP), `ssh` (Git `push` using SSH), or `web` (all other actions). |
| `GL_REPOSITORY`      | `project-<id>` where `id` is the ID of the project.                                                                                                        |
| `GL_USERNAME`        | GitLab username of the user that initiated the push.                                                                                                       |

The following Git environment variables are supported for `pre-receive` and `post-receive` server hooks:

| Environment variable               | Description                                                                                                                                                            |
|:-----------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `GIT_ALTERNATE_OBJECT_DIRECTORIES` | Alternate object directories in the quarantine environment. See [Git `receive-pack` documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-receive-pack#_quarantine_environment). |
| `GIT_OBJECT_DIRECTORY`             | GitLab project path in the quarantine environment. See [Git `receive-pack` documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-receive-pack#_quarantine_environment).          |
| `GIT_PUSH_OPTION_COUNT`            | Number of [push options](../user/project/push_options.md). See [Git `pre-receive` documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/githooks#pre-receive).                                                          |
| `GIT_PUSH_OPTION_<i>`              | Value of [push options](../user/project/push_options.md) where `i` is from `0` to `GIT_PUSH_OPTION_COUNT - 1`. See [Git `pre-receive` documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/githooks#pre-receive).      |

## Custom error messages

You can have custom error messages appear in the GitLab UI when a commit is declined or an error occurs during the Git
hook. To display a custom error message, your script must:

- Send the custom error messages to either the script's `stdout` or `stderr`.
- Prefix each message with `GL-HOOK-ERR:` with no characters appearing before the prefix.

For example:

```shell
#!/bin/sh
echo "GL-HOOK-ERR: My custom error message.";
exit 1
```

Commit message:

doc/hooks: Clarify Gitaly CLI
The hooks documentation references using the Gitaly CLI to set custom
Git hooks for a repository but does not elaborate on what the CLI is.
Update the documentation to explain that the Gitaly CLI is part of the
Gitaly server binary.

doc/administration/server_hooks.md, after:

---
stage: Systems
group: Gitaly
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Git server hooks **(FREE SELF)**

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/196051) in GitLab 12.8 replacing Custom Hooks.
> - [Renamed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/372991) from server hooks to Git server hooks in GitLab 15.6.

Git server hooks (not to be confused with [system hooks](system_hooks.md) or [file hooks](file_hooks.md)) run custom logic
on the GitLab server. You can use them to run Git-related tasks such as:

- Enforcing specific commit policies.
- Performing tasks based on the state of the repository.

Git server hooks use `pre-receive`, `post-receive`, and `update`
[Git server-side hooks](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Customizing-Git-Git-Hooks#_server_side_hooks).

GitLab administrators configure server hooks using the `gitaly` command, which also:

- Is used to launch a Gitaly server.
- Provides several subcommands.
- Connects to the Gitaly gRPC API.

If you don't have access to the `gitaly` command, alternatives to server hooks include:

- [Webhooks](../user/project/integrations/webhooks.md).
- [GitLab CI/CD](../ci/index.md).
- [Push rules](../user/project/repository/push_rules.md), for a user-configurable Git hook interface.

[Geo](geo/index.md) doesn't replicate server hooks to secondary nodes.

## Set server hooks for a repository

::Tabs

:::TabTitle GitLab 15.11 and later

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitaly/-/issues/4629) in GitLab 15.11, `hooks set` command replaces direct file system access. Existing Git hooks don't need migrating for the `hooks set` command.

Prerequisites:

- The [storage name](gitaly/configure_gitaly.md#gitlab-requires-a-default-repository-storage), path to the Gitaly configuration file
  (default is `/var/opt/gitlab/gitaly/config.toml` on Linux package instances), and the
  [repository relative path](repository_storage_paths.md#from-project-name-to-hashed-path) for the repository.

To set server hooks for a repository:

1. Create tarball containing custom hooks:
   1. Write the code to make the server hook function as expected. Git server hooks can be in any programming language.
      Ensure the [shebang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)) at the top reflects the language type. For
      example, if the script is in Ruby the shebang is probably `#!/usr/bin/env ruby`.

      - To create a single server hook, create a file with a name that matches the hook type. For example, for a
        `pre-receive` server hook, the file name should be `pre-receive` with no extension.
      - To create many server hooks, create a directory for the hooks that matches the hook type. For example, for a
        `pre-receive` server hook, the directory name should be `pre-receive.d`. Put the files for the hook in that
        directory.

   1. Ensure the server hook files are executable and do not match the backup file pattern (`*~`). The server hooks be
      in a `custom_hooks` directory that is at the root of the tarball.
   1. Create the custom hooks archive with the tar command. For example, `tar -cf custom_hooks.tar custom_hooks`.
1. Run the `hooks set` subcommand with required options to set the Git hooks for the repository. For example,
   `cat hooks.tar | gitaly hooks set --storage <storage> --repository <relative path> --config <config path>`.

   - A path to a valid Gitaly configuration for the node is required to connect to the node and provided to the `--config` flag.
   - Custom hooks tarball must be passed via `stdin`. For example, `cat hooks.tar | gitaly hooks set --storage <storage> --repository <relative path> --config <config path>`.
1. If you are using Gitaly Cluster, you must run `hooks set` subcommand on all Gitaly nodes. For more information, see
   [Server hooks on a Gitaly Cluster](#server-hooks-on-a-gitaly-cluster).

If you implemented the server hook code correctly, it should execute when the Git hook is next triggered.

:::TabTitle GitLab 15.10 and earlier

To create server hooks for a repository:

1. On the left sidebar, at the bottom, select **Admin Area**.
1. Go to **Overview > Projects** and select the project you want to add a server hook to.
1. On the page that appears, locate the value of **Relative path**. This path is where server
   hooks must be located.
   - If you are using [hashed storage](repository_storage_paths.md#hashed-storage), see
     [Translate hashed storage paths](repository_storage_paths.md#translate-hashed-storage-paths) for information on
     interpreting the relative path.
   - If you are not using [hashed storage](repository_storage_paths.md#hashed-storage):
     - For Linux package installations, the path is usually `/var/opt/gitlab/git-data/repositories/<group>/<project>.git`.
     - For self-compiled installations, the path is usually `/home/git/repositories/<group>/<project>.git`.
1. On the file system, create a new directory in the correct location called `custom_hooks`.
1. In the new `custom_hooks` directory:
   - To create a single server hook, create a file with a name that matches the hook type. For example, for a
     `pre-receive` server hook, the file name should be `pre-receive` with no extension.
   - To create many server hooks, create a directory for the hooks that matches the hook type. For example, for a
     `pre-receive` server hook, the directory name should be `pre-receive.d`. Put the files for the hook in that directory.
1. **Make the server hook files executable** and ensure that they are owned by the Git user.
1. Write the code to make the server hook function as expected. Git server hooks can be in any programming language. Ensure
   the [shebang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)) at the top reflects the language type. For
   example, if the script is in Ruby the shebang is probably `#!/usr/bin/env ruby`.
1. Ensure the hook file does not match the backup file
   pattern (`*~`).
1. If you are using Gitaly Cluster, you must repeat this process on all Gitaly nodes. For more information, see
   [Server hooks on a Gitaly Cluster](#server-hooks-on-a-gitaly-cluster).

If the server hook code is properly implemented, it should execute when the Git hook is next triggered.

::EndTabs

### Server hooks on a Gitaly Cluster

If you use [Gitaly Cluster](gitaly/index.md), an individual repository may be replicated to multiple Gitaly storages in Praefect.
Consequentially, the hook scripts must be copied to every Gitaly node that has a replica of the repository.
To accomplish this, follow the same steps for setting custom repository hooks for the applicable version and repeat for each storage.

The location to copy the scripts to depends on where repositories are stored:

- In GitLab 15.2 and earlier, Gitaly Cluster uses the [hashed storage path](repository_storage_paths.md#hashed-storage)
  reported by the GitLab application.
- In GitLab 15.3 and later, new repositories are created using
  [Praefect-generated replica paths](gitaly/index.md#praefect-generated-replica-paths-gitlab-150-and-later),
  which are not the hashed storage path. The replica path can be identified by
  [querying the Praefect repository metadata](../administration/gitaly/troubleshooting.md#view-repository-metadata)
  using `-relative-path` to specify the expected GitLab hashed storage path.

## Create global server hooks for all repositories

To create a Git hook that applies to all repositories, set a global server hook. Global server hooks also apply to:

- [Project and group wiki](../user/project/wiki/index.md) repositories. Their storage directory names are in the format
  `<id>.wiki.git`.
- [Design management](../user/project/issues/design_management.md) repositories under a project. Their storage directory
  names are in the format `<id>.design.git`.

### Choose a server hook directory

Before creating a global server hook, you must choose a directory for it.

For Linux package installations, the directory is set in `gitlab.rb` under `gitaly['configuration'][:hooks][:custom_hooks_dir]`. You can either:

- Use the default suggestion of the `/var/opt/gitlab/gitaly/custom_hooks` directory by uncommenting it.
- Add your own setting.

For self-compiled installations:

- The directory is set in a configuration file. The location of the configuration file depends on the GitLab version:
  - For GitLab 13.1 and later, the directory is set in `gitaly/config.toml` under the `[hooks]` section. However,
    GitLab honors the `custom_hooks_dir` value in `gitlab-shell/config.yml` if the value in `gitaly/config.toml` is blank
    or non-existent.
  - For GitLab 13.0 and earlier, the directory set in `gitlab-shell/config.yml`.
- The default directory is `/home/git/gitlab-shell/hooks`.

### Create the global server hook

To create a global server hook for all repositories:

1. On the GitLab server, go to the configured global server hook directory.
1. In the configured global server hook directory, create a directory for the hooks that matches the hook type. For example, for a `pre-receive` server hook, the directory name should be `pre-receive.d`.
1. Inside this new directory, add your server hooks. Git server hooks can be in any programming language. Ensure the
   [shebang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)) at the top reflects the language type. For example, if the
   script is in Ruby the shebang is probably `#!/usr/bin/env ruby`.
1. Make the hook file executable, ensure that it's owned by the Git user, and ensure it does not match the backup file
   pattern (`*~`).

If the server hook code is properly implemented, it should execute when the Git hook is next triggered. Hooks are executed in alphabetical order by file name in the hook type
subdirectories.

## Remove server hooks for a repository

::Tabs

:::TabTitle GitLab 15.11 and later

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitaly/-/issues/4629) in GitLab 15.11, `hooks set` command replaces direct file system access.

Prerequisites:

- The [storage name and relative path](repository_storage_paths.md#from-project-name-to-hashed-path) for the repository.

To remove server hooks, pass an empty tarball to `hook set` to indicate that the repository should contain no hooks. For example:

```shell
cat empty_hooks.tar | gitaly hooks set --storage <storage> --repository <relative path> --config <config path>`.
```

:::TabTitle GitLab 15.10 and earlier

To remove server hooks:

1. Go to the location of the repository on disk.
1. Delete the server hooks in the `custom_hooks` directory.

::EndTabs

## Chained server hooks

GitLab can execute server hooks in a chain. GitLab searches for and executes server hooks in the following order:

- Built-in GitLab server hooks. These server hooks are not customizable by users.
- `<project>.git/custom_hooks/<hook_name>`: Per-project hooks. This location is kept for backwards compatibility.
- `<project>.git/custom_hooks/<hook_name>.d/*`: Location for per-project hooks.
- `<custom_hooks_dir>/<hook_name>.d/*`: Location for all executable global hook files except editor backup files.

Within a server hooks directory, hooks:

- Are executed in alphabetical order.
- Stop executing when a hook exits with a non-zero value.

## Environment variables available to server hooks

You can pass any environment variable to server hooks, but you should only rely on supported environment variables.

The following GitLab environment variables are supported for all server hooks:

| Environment variable | Description                                                                                                                                                |
|:---------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `GL_ID`              | GitLab identifier of user or SSH key that initiated the push. For example, `user-2234` or `key-4`.                                                         |
| `GL_PROJECT_PATH`    | (GitLab 13.2 and later) GitLab project path.                                                                                                               |
| `GL_PROTOCOL`        | (GitLab 13.2 and later) Protocol used for this change. One of: `http` (Git `push` using HTTP), `ssh` (Git `push` using SSH), or `web` (all other actions). |
| `GL_REPOSITORY`      | `project-<id>` where `id` is the ID of the project.                                                                                                        |
| `GL_USERNAME`        | GitLab username of the user that initiated the push.                                                                                                       |

The following Git environment variables are supported for `pre-receive` and `post-receive` server hooks:

| Environment variable               | Description                                                                                                                                                            |
|:-----------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `GIT_ALTERNATE_OBJECT_DIRECTORIES` | Alternate object directories in the quarantine environment. See [Git `receive-pack` documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-receive-pack#_quarantine_environment). |
| `GIT_OBJECT_DIRECTORY`             | GitLab project path in the quarantine environment. See [Git `receive-pack` documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-receive-pack#_quarantine_environment).          |
| `GIT_PUSH_OPTION_COUNT`            | Number of [push options](../user/project/push_options.md). See [Git `pre-receive` documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/githooks#pre-receive).                                                          |
| `GIT_PUSH_OPTION_<i>`              | Value of [push options](../user/project/push_options.md) where `i` is from `0` to `GIT_PUSH_OPTION_COUNT - 1`. See [Git `pre-receive` documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/githooks#pre-receive).      |

## Custom error messages

You can have custom error messages appear in the GitLab UI when a commit is declined or an error occurs during the Git
hook. To display a custom error message, your script must:

- Send the custom error messages to either the script's `stdout` or `stderr`.
- Prefix each message with `GL-HOOK-ERR:` with no characters appearing before the prefix.

For example:

```shell
#!/bin/sh
echo "GL-HOOK-ERR: My custom error message.";
exit 1
```
