doc/user/application_security/vulnerability_report/index.md, before:

---
type: reference, howto
stage: Govern
group: Threat Insights
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Vulnerability Report **(ULTIMATE ALL)**

The Vulnerability Report provides information about vulnerabilities from scans of the default branch. It contains
cumulative results of all successful jobs, regardless of whether the pipeline was successful. The scan results from a
pipeline are only ingested after all the jobs in the pipeline complete.

<i class="fa fa-youtube-play youtube" aria-hidden="true"></i>
For an overview, see [Vulnerability Management](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=alMRIq5UPbw).

At all levels, the Vulnerability Report contains:

- Totals of vulnerabilities per severity level.
- Filters for common vulnerability attributes.
- Details of each vulnerability, presented in tabular layout.

At the project level, the Vulnerability Report also contains:

- A time stamp showing when it was updated, including a link to the latest pipeline.
- The number of failures that occurred in the most recent pipeline. Select the failure
  notification to view the **Failed jobs** tab of the pipeline's page.

The **Activity** column contains icons to indicate the activity, if any, taken on the vulnerability
in that row:

- Issues **{issues}**: Links to issues created for the vulnerability. For more information, see
  [Create a GitLab issue for a vulnerability](../vulnerabilities/index.md#create-a-gitlab-issue-for-a-vulnerability).
- Wrench **{admin}**: The vulnerability has been remediated.
- False positive **{false-positive}**: The scanner determined this vulnerability to be a false
  positive.

To open an issue created for a vulnerability, hover over the **Activity** entry, then select the link.
The issue icon (**{issues}**) indicates the issue's status. If Jira issue support is enabled, the
issue link found in the **Activity** entry links out to the issue in Jira. Unlike GitLab issues, the
status of a Jira issue is not shown in the GitLab UI.

![Example project-level Vulnerability Report](img/project_level_vulnerability_report_v14_5.png)

When vulnerabilities originate from a multi-project pipeline setup,
this page displays the vulnerabilities that originate from the selected project.

## View the vulnerability report

View the vulnerability report to list all vulnerabilities in the project or group.

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Developer role for the project or group.

To view the vulnerability report:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project or group.
1. Select **Secure > Vulnerability report**.

## Vulnerability Report filters

You can filter the Vulnerability Report to narrow focus on only vulnerabilities matching specific
criteria.

The filters available at all levels are:

<!-- vale gitlab.SubstitutionWarning = NO -->

- **Status**: Detected, confirmed, dismissed, resolved. For details on what each status means, see
  [vulnerability status values](../vulnerabilities/index.md#vulnerability-status-values).
- **Severity**: Critical, high, medium, low, info, unknown.
- **Tool**: For more details, see [Tool filter](#tool-filter).
- **Activity**: For more details, see [Activity filter](#activity-filter).

Additionally, the [project filter](#project-filter) is available at the group level.

<!-- vale gitlab.SubstitutionWarning = YES -->

### Filter the list of vulnerabilities

To filter the list of vulnerabilities:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Secure > Vulnerability report**.
1. Select a filter.
1. Select values from the dropdown list.
1. Repeat the above steps for each desired filter.

After each filter is selected:

- The list of matching vulnerabilities is updated.
- The vulnerability severity totals are updated.

### Tool filter

The tool filter allows you to focus on vulnerabilities detected by selected tools.

When using the tool filter, you can choose:

- **All tools** (default).
- Individual GitLab-provided tools.
- Any integrated third-party tool.
- Vulnerabilities that were added manually.

For details of each of the available tools, see [Security scanning tools](../index.md#application-coverage).

### Project filter

The content of the Project filter depends on the current level:

- **Security Center**: Only projects you've [added to your personal Security Center](../security_dashboard/index.md#adding-projects-to-the-security-center).
- **Group level**: All projects in the group.
- **Project level**: Not applicable.

### Activity filter

The activity filter behaves differently from the other filters. You can select only one value in
each category. To remove a filter, from the activity filter dropdown list select the filter you want to remove.

Selection behavior when using the activity filter:

- **Activity**
  - **All activity**: Vulnerabilities with any activity status (same as ignoring this filter). Selecting this deselects all other activity filter options.
- **Detection**
  - **Still detected**: Vulnerabilities that are still detected in the latest pipeline scan of the `default` branch.
  - **No longer detected**: Vulnerabilities that are no longer detected in the latest pipeline scan of the `default` branch.
- **Issue**
  - **Has issues**: Vulnerabilities with one or more associated issues.
  - **Does not have issue**: Vulnerabilities without an associated issue.
- **Merge request**
  - **Has merge request**: Vulnerabilities with one or more associated merge requests.
  - **Does not have merge request**: Vulnerabilities without an associated merge request.

## View details of a vulnerability

To view more details of a vulnerability, select the vulnerability's **Description**. The
[vulnerability's details](../vulnerabilities) page is opened.

## View vulnerable source location

Some security scanners output the filename and line number of a potential vulnerability. When
that information is available, the vulnerability's details include a link to the relevant file,
in the default branch.

To view the relevant file, select the filename in the vulnerability's details.

## Change status of vulnerabilities

> Providing a comment and dismissal reason [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/408366) in GitLab 16.0.

As you triage vulnerabilities you can change their status, including dismissing vulnerabilities.

When a vulnerability is dismissed, the audit log includes a note of who dismissed it, when it was
dismissed, and the reason it was dismissed. You cannot delete vulnerability records, so a permanent
record always remains.

To change the status of vulnerabilities:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Secure > Vulnerability report**.
1. To select:
   - One or more vulnerabilities, select the checkbox beside each vulnerability.
   - All vulnerabilities on the page, select the checkbox in the table header.
1. In the **Set status** dropdown list, select the desired status.
1. If the **Dismissed** status is chosen, select the desired reason in the **Set dismissal reason** dropdown list.
1. In the **Add a comment** input, you can provide a comment. For the **Dismissed** status, a comment is required.
1. Select **Change status**.

![Project Vulnerability Report](img/project_security_dashboard_status_change_v16_0.png)

## Sort vulnerabilities by date detected

By default, vulnerabilities are sorted by severity level, with the highest-severity vulnerabilities listed at the top.

To sort vulnerabilities by the date each vulnerability was detected, select the "Detected" column header.

## Export vulnerability details

You can export details of the vulnerabilities listed in the Vulnerability Report. The export format
is CSV (comma separated values). All vulnerabilities are included because filters do not
apply to the export.

Fields included are:

- Group name
- Project name
- Tool
- Scanner name
- Status
- Vulnerability
- Basic details
- Additional information
- Severity
- [CVE](https://cve.mitre.org/) (Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures)
- [CWE](https://cwe.mitre.org/) (Common Weakness Enumeration)
- Other identifiers
- Detected At
- Location
- Activity: Returns `true` if the vulnerability is resolved on the default branch, and `false` if not.
- Comments
- Full Path
- CVSS Vectors

NOTE:
Full details are available through our
[Job Artifacts API](../../../api/job_artifacts.md#download-a-single-artifact-file-from-specific-tag-or-branch).
Use one of the `gl-*-report.json` report filenames in place of `*artifact_path`
to obtain, for example, the path of files in which vulnerabilities were detected.

### Export details in CSV format

To export details of all vulnerabilities listed in the Vulnerability Report, select **Export**.

The details are retrieved from the database, then the CSV file is downloaded to your local
computer.

NOTE:
It may take several minutes for the download to start if your project contains
thousands of vulnerabilities. Do not close the page until the download finishes.

## Manually add a vulnerability

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/301003) in GitLab 14.9. Disabled by default.
> - [Enabled on GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/353796) in GitLab 14.10.
> - [Feature flag `new_vulnerability_form`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/359049) removed in GitLab 15.0.

Add a vulnerability manually when it is not available in the GitLab vulnerabilities database. You
can add a vulnerability only in a project's vulnerability report.

To add a vulnerability manually:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Secure > Vulnerability report**.
1. Select **Submit vulnerability**.
1. Complete the fields and submit the form.

The newly-created vulnerability's detail page is opened.

## Group vulnerabilities

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/10164) in GitLab 16.4 [with a flag](../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `vulnerability_report_grouping`. Disabled by default.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/422509) in GitLab 16.6. Feature flag `vulnerability_report_grouping` removed.

In the project-level vulnerability report you can group vulnerabilities, enabling more efficient
triaging.

To group vulnerabilities in the vulnerability report:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Secure > Vulnerability report**.
1. From the **Group By** dropdown list, select an attribute.

Vulnerabilities are grouped according to the attribute you selected. Each group is collapsed, with
totals per group displayed beside their name. To see the vulnerabilities in each group, select the group's
name.

## Operational vulnerabilities

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/6345) in GitLab 14.6.

The **Operational vulnerabilities** tab lists vulnerabilities found by [Operational container scanning](../../clusters/agent/vulnerabilities.md).
This tab appears on the project, group, and Security Center vulnerability reports.

![Operational Vulnerability Tab](img/operational_vulnerability_tab_v14_6.png)

Commit message:

Improve vulnerability report filter docs

doc/user/application_security/vulnerability_report/index.md, after:

---
type: reference, howto
stage: Govern
group: Threat Insights
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Vulnerability Report **(ULTIMATE ALL)**

The Vulnerability Report provides information about vulnerabilities from scans of the default branch. It contains
cumulative results of all successful jobs, regardless of whether the pipeline was successful. The scan results from a
pipeline are only ingested after all the jobs in the pipeline complete.

<i class="fa fa-youtube-play youtube" aria-hidden="true"></i>
For an overview, see [Vulnerability Management](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=alMRIq5UPbw).

At all levels, the Vulnerability Report contains:

- Totals of vulnerabilities per severity level.
- Filters for common vulnerability attributes.
- Details of each vulnerability, presented in tabular layout.

At the project level, the Vulnerability Report also contains:

- A time stamp showing when it was updated, including a link to the latest pipeline.
- The number of failures that occurred in the most recent pipeline. Select the failure
  notification to view the **Failed jobs** tab of the pipeline's page.

The **Activity** column contains icons to indicate the activity, if any, taken on the vulnerability
in that row:

- Issues **{issues}**: Links to issues created for the vulnerability. For more information, see
  [Create a GitLab issue for a vulnerability](../vulnerabilities/index.md#create-a-gitlab-issue-for-a-vulnerability).
- Wrench **{admin}**: The vulnerability has been remediated.
- False positive **{false-positive}**: The scanner determined this vulnerability to be a false
  positive.

To open an issue created for a vulnerability, hover over the **Activity** entry, then select the link.
The issue icon (**{issues}**) indicates the issue's status. If Jira issue support is enabled, the
issue link found in the **Activity** entry links out to the issue in Jira. Unlike GitLab issues, the
status of a Jira issue is not shown in the GitLab UI.

![Example project-level Vulnerability Report](img/project_level_vulnerability_report_v14_5.png)

When vulnerabilities originate from a multi-project pipeline setup,
this page displays the vulnerabilities that originate from the selected project.

## View the vulnerability report

View the vulnerability report to list all vulnerabilities in the project or group.

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Developer role for the project or group.

To view the vulnerability report:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project or group.
1. Select **Secure > Vulnerability report**.

## Vulnerability Report filters

You can filter the Vulnerability Report to narrow focus on only vulnerabilities matching specific
criteria.

The filters available at all levels are:

<!-- vale gitlab.SubstitutionWarning = NO -->

- **Status**: Detected, confirmed, dismissed, resolved. For details on what each status means, see
  [vulnerability status values](../vulnerabilities/index.md#vulnerability-status-values).
- **Severity**: Critical, high, medium, low, info, unknown.
- **Tool**: For more details, see [Tool filter](#tool-filter).
- **Activity**: For more details, see [Activity filter](#activity-filter).

Additionally, the [project filter](#project-filter) is available at the group level.

<!-- vale gitlab.SubstitutionWarning = YES -->

### Filter the list of vulnerabilities

To filter the list of vulnerabilities:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Secure > Vulnerability report**.
1. Select a filter.
1. Select values from the dropdown list.
1. Repeat the above steps for each desired filter.

After each filter is selected:

- The list of matching vulnerabilities is updated.
- The vulnerability severity totals are updated.

### Tool filter

> Project-level tool filter [introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/11237) in GitLab 16.6.

You can filter vulnerabilities by the tool that detected them. By default, the
vulnerability report lists vulnerabilities from all tools. When you select a heading, you select all the tools
under that heading.

::Tabs

:::TabTitle GitLab 16.6 and later

The content of the tool filter for both projects and groups depends on the following:

- If you've integrated and enabled third-party analyzers, the tool filter is grouped by
  scanning category (for example, container scanning, DAST, and dependency scanning). Scanner
  entries are only shown if the scanner detected vulnerabilities.
- If you have not integrated any third-party analyzers, see GitLab 16.5 and
  earlier.

:::TabTitle GitLab 16.5 and earlier

The content of the tool filter at all levels is categorized first by the analyzer's vendor, then by
scanning category. If you've only enabled GitLab analyzers, only those analyzers are listed in the
tool filter.

::EndTabs

To filter vulnerabilities that were added manually, use the **Manually added** filter.

For details of each of the available tools, see [Security scanning tools](../index.md#application-coverage).

### Project filter

The content of the Project filter depends on the current level:

- **Security Center**: Only projects you've [added to your personal Security Center](../security_dashboard/index.md#adding-projects-to-the-security-center).
- **Group level**: All projects in the group.
- **Project level**: Not applicable.

### Activity filter

The activity filter behaves differently from the other filters. You can select only one value in
each category. To remove a filter, from the activity filter dropdown list select the filter you want to remove.

Selection behavior when using the activity filter:

- **Activity**
  - **All activity**: Vulnerabilities with any activity status (same as ignoring this filter). Selecting this deselects all other activity filter options.
- **Detection**
  - **Still detected**: Vulnerabilities that are still detected in the latest pipeline scan of the `default` branch.
  - **No longer detected**: Vulnerabilities that are no longer detected in the latest pipeline scan of the `default` branch.
- **Issue**
  - **Has issues**: Vulnerabilities with one or more associated issues.
  - **Does not have issue**: Vulnerabilities without an associated issue.
- **Merge request**
  - **Has merge request**: Vulnerabilities with one or more associated merge requests.
  - **Does not have merge request**: Vulnerabilities without an associated merge request.

## View details of a vulnerability

To view more details of a vulnerability, select the vulnerability's **Description**. The
[vulnerability's details](../vulnerabilities) page is opened.

## View vulnerable source location

Some security scanners output the filename and line number of a potential vulnerability. When
that information is available, the vulnerability's details include a link to the relevant file,
in the default branch.

To view the relevant file, select the filename in the vulnerability's details.

## Change status of vulnerabilities

> Providing a comment and dismissal reason [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/408366) in GitLab 16.0.

As you triage vulnerabilities you can change their status, including dismissing vulnerabilities.

When a vulnerability is dismissed, the audit log includes a note of who dismissed it, when it was
dismissed, and the reason it was dismissed. You cannot delete vulnerability records, so a permanent
record always remains.

To change the status of vulnerabilities:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Secure > Vulnerability report**.
1. To select:
   - One or more vulnerabilities, select the checkbox beside each vulnerability.
   - All vulnerabilities on the page, select the checkbox in the table header.
1. In the **Set status** dropdown list, select the desired status.
1. If the **Dismissed** status is chosen, select the desired reason in the **Set dismissal reason** dropdown list.
1. In the **Add a comment** input, you can provide a comment. For the **Dismissed** status, a comment is required.
1. Select **Change status**.

![Project Vulnerability Report](img/project_security_dashboard_status_change_v16_0.png)

## Sort vulnerabilities by date detected

By default, vulnerabilities are sorted by severity level, with the highest-severity vulnerabilities listed at the top.

To sort vulnerabilities by the date each vulnerability was detected, select the "Detected" column header.

## Export vulnerability details

You can export details of the vulnerabilities listed in the Vulnerability Report. The export format
is CSV (comma separated values). All vulnerabilities are included because filters do not
apply to the export.

Fields included are:

- Group name
- Project name
- Tool
- Scanner name
- Status
- Vulnerability
- Basic details
- Additional information
- Severity
- [CVE](https://cve.mitre.org/) (Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures)
- [CWE](https://cwe.mitre.org/) (Common Weakness Enumeration)
- Other identifiers
- Detected At
- Location
- Activity: Returns `true` if the vulnerability is resolved on the default branch, and `false` if not.
- Comments
- Full Path
- CVSS Vectors

NOTE:
Full details are available through our
[Job Artifacts API](../../../api/job_artifacts.md#download-a-single-artifact-file-from-specific-tag-or-branch).
Use one of the `gl-*-report.json` report filenames in place of `*artifact_path`
to obtain, for example, the path of files in which vulnerabilities were detected.

### Export details in CSV format

To export details of all vulnerabilities listed in the Vulnerability Report, select **Export**.

The details are retrieved from the database, then the CSV file is downloaded to your local
computer.

NOTE:
It may take several minutes for the download to start if your project contains
thousands of vulnerabilities. Do not close the page until the download finishes.

## Manually add a vulnerability

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/301003) in GitLab 14.9. Disabled by default.
> - [Enabled on GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/353796) in GitLab 14.10.
> - [Feature flag `new_vulnerability_form`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/359049) removed in GitLab 15.0.

Add a vulnerability manually when it is not available in the GitLab vulnerabilities database. You
can add a vulnerability only in a project's vulnerability report.

To add a vulnerability manually:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Secure > Vulnerability report**.
1. Select **Submit vulnerability**.
1. Complete the fields and submit the form.

The newly-created vulnerability's detail page is opened.

## Group vulnerabilities

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/10164) in GitLab 16.4 [with a flag](../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `vulnerability_report_grouping`. Disabled by default.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/422509) in GitLab 16.6. Feature flag `vulnerability_report_grouping` removed.

In the project-level vulnerability report you can group vulnerabilities, enabling more efficient
triaging.

To group vulnerabilities in the vulnerability report:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Secure > Vulnerability report**.
1. From the **Group By** dropdown list, select an attribute.

Vulnerabilities are grouped according to the attribute you selected. Each group is collapsed, with
totals per group displayed beside their name. To see the vulnerabilities in each group, select the group's
name.

## Operational vulnerabilities

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/6345) in GitLab 14.6.

The **Operational vulnerabilities** tab lists vulnerabilities found by [Operational container scanning](../../clusters/agent/vulnerabilities.md).
This tab appears on the project, group, and Security Center vulnerability reports.

![Operational Vulnerability Tab](img/operational_vulnerability_tab_v14_6.png)
