doc/user/public_access.md, before:

---
stage: Data Stores
group: Tenant Scale
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
type: reference
---

# Project and group visibility **(FREE ALL)**

Projects and groups in GitLab can be private, internal, or public.

The visibility level of the group or project has no influence on whether members within the group or project can see each other.
A group or project is an object to allow collaborative work. This is only possible if all members know about each other.

Group or project members can see all members of the group or project they belong to.
Group or project owners can see the origin of membership (the original group or project) of all members.

## Private projects and groups

For private projects, only members of the private project or group can:

- Clone the project.
- View the public access directory (`/public`).

Users with the Guest role cannot clone the project.

Private groups can have only private subgroups.

## Internal projects and groups **(FREE SELF)**

For internal projects, **any authenticated user**, including users with the Guest role, can:

- Clone the project.
- View the public access directory (`/public`).

Only internal members can view internal content.

[External users](admin_area/external_users.md) cannot clone the project.

Internal groups can have internal or private subgroups.

NOTE:
From July 2019, the `Internal` visibility setting is disabled for new projects, groups,
and snippets on GitLab.com. Existing projects, groups, and snippets using the `Internal`
visibility setting keep this setting. For more information, see
[issue 12388](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/12388).

## Public projects and groups

For public projects, **users who are not authenticated**, including users with the Guest role, can:

- Clone the project.
- View the public access directory (`/public`).

Public groups can have public, internal, or private subgroups.

NOTE:
If an administrator restricts the
[**Public** visibility level](../administration/settings/visibility_and_access_controls.md#restrict-visibility-levels),
then `/public` is visible only to authenticated users.

## Change project visibility

You can change the visibility of a project.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for a project.

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Settings > General**.
1. Expand **Visibility, project features, permissions**.
1. Change **Project visibility** to either **Private**, **Internal**, or **Public**.
   The visibility setting for a project must be at least as restrictive
   as the visibility of its parent group.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Change group visibility

You can change the visibility of all projects in a group.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for a group.
- Subgroups and projects must already have visibility settings that are at least as
  restrictive as the new setting of the parent group. For example, you cannot set a group
  to private if a subgroup or project in that group is public.

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Settings > General**.
1. Expand **Naming, visibility**.
1. Under **Visibility level** select either **Private**, **Internal**, or **Public**.
   The visibility setting for a project must be at least as restrictive
   as the visibility of its parent group.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Restrict use of public or internal projects **(FREE SELF)**

Administrators can restrict which visibility levels users can choose when they create a project or a snippet.
This setting can help prevent users from publicly exposing their repositories by accident.

For more information, see [Restrict visibility levels](../administration/settings/visibility_and_access_controls.md#restrict-visibility-levels).

## Related topics

- [Change the visibility of features](project/working_with_projects.md#change-the-visibility-of-individual-features-in-a-project)

<!-- ## Troubleshooting

Include any troubleshooting steps that you can foresee. If you know beforehand what issues
one might have when setting this up, or when something is changed, or on upgrading, it's
important to describe those, too. Think of things that may go wrong and include them here.
This is important to minimize requests for support, and to avoid doc comments with
questions that you know someone might ask.

Each scenario can be a third-level heading, for example `### Getting error message X`.
If you have none to add when creating a doc, leave this section in place
but commented out to help encourage others to add to it in the future. -->

Commit message:

Reorganize tasks from "Manage projects" and "Project settings"

doc/user/public_access.md, after:

---
stage: Data Stores
group: Tenant Scale
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
type: reference
---

# Project and group visibility **(FREE ALL)**

Projects and groups in GitLab can be private, internal, or public.

The visibility level of the group or project has no influence on whether members within the group or project can see each other.
A group or project is an object to allow collaborative work. This is only possible if all members know about each other.

Group or project members can see all members of the group or project they belong to.
Group or project owners can see the origin of membership (the original group or project) of all members.

## Private projects and groups

For private projects, only members of the private project or group can:

- Clone the project.
- View the public access directory (`/public`).

Users with the Guest role cannot clone the project.

Private groups can have only private subgroups.

## Internal projects and groups **(FREE SELF)**

For internal projects, **any authenticated user**, including users with the Guest role, can:

- Clone the project.
- View the public access directory (`/public`).

Only internal members can view internal content.

[External users](admin_area/external_users.md) cannot clone the project.

Internal groups can have internal or private subgroups.

NOTE:
From July 2019, the `Internal` visibility setting is disabled for new projects, groups,
and snippets on GitLab.com. Existing projects, groups, and snippets using the `Internal`
visibility setting keep this setting. For more information, see
[issue 12388](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/12388).

## Public projects and groups

For public projects, **users who are not authenticated**, including users with the Guest role, can:

- Clone the project.
- View the public access directory (`/public`).

Public groups can have public, internal, or private subgroups.

NOTE:
If an administrator restricts the
[**Public** visibility level](../administration/settings/visibility_and_access_controls.md#restrict-visibility-levels),
then `/public` is visible only to authenticated users.

## Change project visibility

You can change the visibility of a project.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for a project.

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Settings > General**.
1. Expand **Visibility, project features, permissions**.
1. Change **Project visibility** to either **Private**, **Internal**, or **Public**.
   The visibility setting for a project must be at least as restrictive
   as the visibility of its parent group.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Change the visibility of individual features in a project

You can change the visibility of individual features in a project.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for the project.

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Settings > General**.
1. Expand **Visibility, project features, permissions**.
1. Use the toggle by each feature you want to turn on or off, or change access for.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Change group visibility

You can change the visibility of all projects in a group.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for a group.
- Subgroups and projects must already have visibility settings that are at least as
  restrictive as the new setting of the parent group. For example, you cannot set a group
  to private if a subgroup or project in that group is public.

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Settings > General**.
1. Expand **Naming, visibility**.
1. Under **Visibility level** select either **Private**, **Internal**, or **Public**.
   The visibility setting for a project must be at least as restrictive
   as the visibility of its parent group.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Restrict use of public or internal projects **(FREE SELF)**

Administrators can restrict which visibility levels users can choose when they create a project or a snippet.
This setting can help prevent users from publicly exposing their repositories by accident.

For more information, see [Restrict visibility levels](../administration/settings/visibility_and_access_controls.md#restrict-visibility-levels).

<!-- ## Troubleshooting

Include any troubleshooting steps that you can foresee. If you know beforehand what issues
one might have when setting this up, or when something is changed, or on upgrading, it's
important to describe those, too. Think of things that may go wrong and include them here.
This is important to minimize requests for support, and to avoid doc comments with
questions that you know someone might ask.

Each scenario can be a third-level heading, for example `### Getting error message X`.
If you have none to add when creating a doc, leave this section in place
but commented out to help encourage others to add to it in the future. -->
